<span style="color:#00ff73">Active Directory (AD)</span> is a directory service for Windows network environments. It is a distributed, hierarchical structure that allows for centralized management of an organization's resources, including users, computers, groups, network devices, file shares, group policies, devices, and trusts. AD provides authentication and authorization functions within a Windows domain environment.

At a very (simplistic) high level, an AD structure may look as follows:
https://imgur.com/a/cgrLBdJ


<span style="color:#00ff73">Active Directory</span> is arranged in a hierarchical tree structure, with a <span style="color:#00ff73">forest </span>at the top containing one or more domains, which can themselves have nested subdomains. 
A <span style="color:#00ff73">forest</span> is the security boundary within which all objects are under administrative control. A forest may contain multiple domains, and a domain may include further child or sub-domains. 
A <span style="color:#00ff73">domain</span> is a structure within which contained objects (users, computers, and groups) are accessible. It has many built-in Organizational Units (OUs), such as `Domain Controllers`, `Users`, `Computers`, and new OUs can be created as required. OUs may contain objects and sub-OUs, allowing for the assignment of different group policies.

 A basic AD user account with no added privileges can be used to enumerate the majority of objects contained within AD, including but not limited to:


## Active Directory Terminology
#### Object
An object can be defined as ANY resource present within an Active Directory environment such as OUs, printers, users, domain controllers, etc.

#### Attributes
Every object in Active Directory has an associated set of [attributes](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/adschema/attributes-all) used to define characteristics of the given object. A computer object contains attributes such as the hostname and DNS name. All attributes in AD have an associated LDAP name that can be used when performing LDAP queries, such as `displayName` for `Full Name` and `given name` for `First Name`.

#### Schema
The Active Directory [schema](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/ad/schema) is essentially the blueprint of any enterprise environment. It defines what types of objects can exist in the AD database and their associated attributes. It lists definitions corresponding to AD objects and holds information about each object. For example, users in AD belong to the class "user," and computer objects to "computer," and so on.

#### Domain
A domain is a logical group of objects such as computers, users, OUs, groups, etc. We can think of each domain as a different city within a state or country. Domains can operate entirely independently of one another or be connected via trust relationships.

#### Forest
A forest is a collection of Active Directory domains. It is the topmost container and contains all of the AD objects introduced below, including but not limited to domains, users, groups, computers, and Group Policy objects. A forest can contain one or multiple domains and be thought of as a state in the US or a country within the EU. Each forest operates independently but may have various trust relationships with other forests.

#### Tree
A tree is a collection of Active Directory domains that begins at a single root domain. A forest is a collection of AD trees. Each domain in a tree shares a boundary with the other domains. A parent-child trust relationship is formed when a domain is added under another domain in a tree. Two trees in the same forest cannot share a name (namespace). Let's say we have two trees in an AD forest: `inlanefreight.local` and `ilfreight.local`. A child domain of the first would be `corp.inlanefreight.local` while a child domain of the second could be `corp.ilfreight.local`. All domains in a tree share a standard Global Catalog which contains all information about objects that belong to the tree.

#### Container
Container objects hold other objects and have a defined place in the directory subtree hierarchy.

#### Leaf
Leaf objects do not contain other objects and are found at the end of the subtree hierarchy.

#### Global Unique Identifier (GUID)
A [GUID](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/adschema/a-objectguid) is a unique 128-bit value assigned when a domain user or group is created. This GUID value is unique across the enterprise, similar to a MAC address. Every single object created by Active Directory is assigned a GUID, not only user and group objects. The GUID is stored in the `ObjectGUID` attribute.

#### Security principals
[Security principals](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/identity-protection/access-control/security-principals) are anything that the operating system can authenticate, including users, computer accounts, or even threads/processes that run in the context of a user or computer account (i.e., an application such as Tomcat running in the context of a service account within the domain)

#### Security Identifier (SID)
A [security identifier](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/identity-protection/access-control/security-principals), or SID is used as a unique identifier for a security principal or security group. Every account, group, or process has its own unique SID, which, in an AD environment, is issued by the domain controller and stored in a secure database. A SID can only be used once.

#### Distinguished Name (DN)
A [Distinguished Name (DN)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/desktop/ldap/distinguished-names) describes the full path to an object in AD (such as `cn=bjones, ou=IT, ou=Employees, dc=inlanefreight, dc=local`). In this example, the user `bjones` works in the IT department of the company Inlanefreight, and his account is created in an Organizational Unit (OU) that holds accounts for company employees.

#### Relative Distinguished Name (RDN)
A [Relative Distinguished Name (RDN)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/ad/object-names-and-identities) is a single component of the Distinguished Name that identifies the object as unique from other objects at the current level in the naming hierarchy.



#### sAMAccountName
The [sAMAccountName](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/ad/naming-properties#samaccountname) is the user's logon name. Here it would just be `bjones`. It must be a unique value and 20 or fewer characters.

#### userPrincipalName
The [userPrincipalName](https://social.technet.microsoft.com/wiki/contents/articles/52250.active-directory-user-principal-name.aspx) attribute is another way to identify users in AD. This attribute consists of a prefix (the user account name) and a suffix (the domain name) in the format of `bjones@inlanefreight.local`. This attribute is not mandatory.

#### Global Catalog
A [global catalog (GC)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/ad/global-catalog) is a domain controller that stores copies of ALL objects in an Active Directory forest. The GC stores a full copy of all objects in the current domain and a partial copy of objects that belong to other domains in the forest.

#### Read-Only Domain Controller (RODC)
A [Read-Only Domain Controller (RODC)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/ad/rodc-and-active-directory-schema) has a read-only Active Directory database. No AD account passwords are cached on an RODC (other than the RODC computer account & RODC KRBTGT passwords.) No changes are pushed out via an RODC's AD database, SYSVOL, or DNS. RODCs also include a read-only DNS server, allow for administrator role separation, reduce replication traffic in the environment, and prevent SYSVOL modifications from being replicated to other DCs.

#### Replication
[Replication](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-ds/get-started/replication/active-directory-replication-concepts) happens in AD when AD objects are updated and transferred from one Domain Controller to another. Whenever a DC is added, connection objects are created to manage replication between them.

#### Service Principal Name (SPN)
A [Service Principal Name (SPN)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/ad/service-principal-names) uniquely identifies a service instance. They are used by Kerberos authentication to associate an instance of a service with a logon account, allowing a client application to request the service to authenticate an account without needing to know the account name.

#### Group Policy Object (GPO)
[Group Policy Objects (GPOs)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/desktop/policy/group-policy-objects) are virtual collections of policy settings. Each GPO has a unique GUID. A GPO can contain local file system settings or Active Directory settings.

#### Access Control List (ACL)
An [Access Control List (ACL)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/secauthz/access-control-lists) is the ordered collection of Access Control Entries (ACEs) that apply to an object.

#### Access Control Entries (ACEs)
Each [Access Control Entry (ACE)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/secauthz/access-control-entries) in an ACL identifies a trustee (user account, group account, or logon session) and lists the access rights that are allowed, denied, or audited for the given trustee.

#### Discretionary Access Control List (DACL)
DACLs define which security principles are granted or denied access to an object; it contains a list of ACEs. When a process tries to access a securable object, the system checks the ACEs in the object's DACL to determine whether or not to grant access. If an object does NOT have a DACL, then the system will grant full access to everyone, but if the DACL has no ACE entries, the system will deny all access attempts. ACEs in the DACL are checked in sequence until a match is found that allows the requested rights or until access is denied.

#### System Access Control Lists (SACL)
Allows for administrators to log access attempts that are made to secured objects. ACEs specify the types of access attempts that cause the system to generate a record in the security event log.

#### Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN)
An FQDN is the complete name for a specific computer or host

#### Tombstone
A [tombstone](https://ldapwiki.com/wiki/Tombstone) is a container object in AD that holds deleted AD objects. When an object is deleted from AD, the object remains for a set period of time known as the `Tombstone Lifetime,` and the `isDeleted` attribute is set to `TRUE`. Once an object exceeds the `Tombstone Lifetime`, it will be entirely removed. Microsoft recommends a tombstone lifetime of 180 days to increase the usefulness of backups, but this value may differ across environments.

#### SYSVOL
The [SYSVOL](https://social.technet.microsoft.com/wiki/contents/articles/8548.active-directory-sysvol-and-netlogon.aspx) folder, or share, stores copies of public files in the domain such as system policies, Group Policy settings, logon/logoff scripts, and often contains other types of scripts that are executed to perform various tasks in the AD environment. The contents of the SYSVOL folder are replicated to all DCs within the environment using File Replication Services (FRS).

#### AdminSDHolder
The [AdminSDHolder](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-ds/plan/security-best-practices/appendix-c--protected-accounts-and-groups-in-active-directory) object is used to manage ACLs for members of built-in groups in AD marked as privileged. It acts as a container that holds the Security Descriptor applied to members of protected groups.

#### dsHeuristics
The [dsHeuristics](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/adschema/a-dsheuristics) attribute is a string value set on the Directory Service object used to define multiple forest-wide configuration settings. One of these settings is to exclude built-in groups from the [Protected Groups](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-ds/plan/security-best-practices/appendix-c--protected-accounts-and-groups-in-active-directory) list.

#### adminCount
The [adminCount](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/adschema/a-admincount) attribute determines whether or not the SDProp process protects a user. If the value is set to `0` or not specified, the user is not protected. If the attribute value is set to `value`, the user is protected. Attackers will often look for accounts with the `adminCount` attribute set to `1` to target in an internal environment. These are often privileged accounts and may lead to further access or full domain compromise.

#### Active Directory Users and Computers (ADUC)
ADUC is a GUI console commonly used for managing users, groups, computers, and contacts in AD. Changes made in ADUC can be done via PowerShell as well.

#### ADSI Edit
ADSI Edit is a GUI tool used to manage objects in AD. It provides access to far more than is available in ADUC and can be used to set or delete any attribute available on an object, add, remove, and move objects as well. It is a powerful tool that allows a user to access AD at a much deeper level. <span style="color:#fe1616">Great care should be taken when using this tool, as changes here could cause major problems in AD. </span> 

#### sIDHistory
[This](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/defender-for-identity/cas-isp-unsecure-sid-history-attribute) attribute holds any SIDs that an object was assigned previously. It is usually used in migrations so a user can maintain the same level of access when migrated from one domain to another. This attribute can potentially be abused if set insecurely, allowing an attacker to gain prior elevated access that an account had before a migration if SID Filtering (or removing SIDs from another domain from a user's access token that could be used for elevated access) is not enabled.

#### NTDS.DIT
The NTDS.DIT file can be considered the heart of Active Directory. It is stored on a Domain Controller at `C:\Windows\NTDS\` and is a database that stores AD data such as information about user and group objects, group membership, and, most important to attackers and penetration testers, the password hashes for all users in the domain.

#### MSBROWSE
MSBROWSE is a Microsoft networking protocol that was used in early versions of Windows-based local area networks (LANs) to provide browsing services. It was used to maintain a list of resources, such as shared printers and files, that were available on the network, and to allow users to easily browse and access these resources.